NAME: "Temple of Aminion",
NAMES: "Temples of Aminion",
DESC: "The Temple of Aminion venerates the Fallen One, Lord of Chaos, who rebelled against the cosmic order. Once a powerful Astari, Aminion sought to remake reality in his own image, believing that true power comes through embracing pain and chaos.

Followers of Aminion practice ritual scarification and blood offerings, believing that through submission to suffering, one transcends mortal limitations. The temple's inner sanctum is adorned with implements of torture and sacrifice, each meticulously crafted to inflict precise forms of pain that are said to open pathways to Aminion's realm.

The Hellspawns are Aminion's most devoted followers, embodying his teachings through their "Pain's Embrace" philosophy. Their bodies bear elaborate ritual scars that channel Aminion's chaotic energies, granting them supernatural strength in battle. The most devoted Hellspawn priests can reportedly summon minor demons through blood rituals performed during the Crimson Moon.

The Bloodelves form a significant cult within Aminion's faith, following the "Crimson Covenant" aspect that focuses on blood consumption and immortality. They believe that by drinking the blood of worthy opponents, they absorb fragments of Aminion's power that was scattered throughout all living beings when he was defeated by Athuri. This practice grants them "Aminion's Vitality"—enhanced longevity, accelerated healing, and resistance to disease that far exceeds that of other races. Their most accomplished blood mages can perform the "Crimson Extraction" ritual, drawing forth specific qualities from consumed blood—strength from warriors, intellect from scholars, or artistic talent from creators—temporarily incorporating these traits into themselves.

Interestingly, the Bloodelves have developed a sophisticated dual worship system that honors both Aminion and Shmalor, seeing the two deities as complementary forces in their pursuit of power and survival. They express this relationship in their saying: "Aminion grants the power, but Shmalor reveals when to use it." In the complex political landscape of Bloodelf society, raw power alone is insufficient; knowing precisely when and how to deploy it makes the difference between ascension and destruction. This pragmatic approach has proven remarkably effective, allowing Bloodelf houses to maintain their dominance through centuries of political upheaval.

The "Crimson Mirror" ritual, practiced by Bloodelf nobles who worship both deities, involves drawing blood into a silver basin and reading the patterns it forms when disturbed. This divination practice is believed to combine Aminion's gift of blood insight with Shmalor's gift of foresight, revealing not only hidden threats but also the optimal strategy for addressing them. Bloodelves who master this ritual gain "Dual Sight"—the ability to perceive both the raw power dynamics in a situation (Aminion's domain) and the subtle opportunities for manipulation (Shmalor's domain).

Worshippers of Aminion believe the deity bestows several tangible blessings upon the faithful. For Bloodelves, the most valued is "Aminion's Blood Gift"—the ability to extract and manipulate the vital essence of living beings. Those who regularly perform blood offerings at Aminion's temples report enhanced sensitivity to the qualities contained within different types of blood, allowing them to select optimal donors for specific magical purposes. Blood mages who make regular sacrifices find their spells more potent and longer-lasting, while warriors who anoint their weapons with ritually prepared blood claim their strikes cause wounds that resist healing.

In times of conflict, Bloodelf commanders call upon "Aminion's Fury"—a battlefield blessing that enhances aggression and pain tolerance among their troops. Warriors who drink a prepared mixture of their own blood and that of their commanders before battle report experiencing a controlled battle rage that allows them to fight through injuries that would incapacitate others. This is not seen as mere chemical stimulation but as Aminion's essence flowing through their veins, temporarily elevating them beyond mortal limitations.

The combination of Aminion's blood gifts and Shmalor's strategic insight has created a uniquely effective approach to warfare among the Bloodelves. Their military doctrine, called "The Crimson Path," emphasizes identifying an enemy's vital weaknesses (Shmalor's influence) and then striking with overwhelming force precisely at those points (Aminion's influence). Before major campaigns, Bloodelf generals perform both the "Crimson Extraction" to enhance their physical capabilities and the "Mirror Shield Ritual" to perceive tactical opportunities, creating commanders who possess both supernatural combat prowess and unmatched strategic acumen.

In Bloodelf society, the highest echelons practice what they call "The Eternal Game"—a complex system of political maneuvering that draws on both Aminion's and Shmalor's teachings. The blood rituals of Aminion provide the raw power and extended lifespan necessary to play this centuries-spanning game, while Shmalor's principles of deception and opportunity recognition provide the strategic framework for success. Those who master both aspects are honored with the title "Crimson Mirror," indicating their perfect balance between power and cunning.

Aminion stands in direct opposition to Athuri, his ancient nemesis who defeated him in the cosmic wars. The two deities represent the eternal struggle between chaos and order, destruction and creation. Followers of Aminion view suffering not as a punishment but as the path to transcendence, believing that only through chaos can true freedom be achieved.

The temple's most sacred ritual is the Crimson Communion, performed during the darkest night of winter, where willing sacrifices offer their blood or even their lives to strengthen Aminion's influence in the mortal realm. It is said that during these ceremonies, the veil between worlds thins, and glimpses of Aminion's chaotic domain can be witnessed by the faithful. For Bloodelves who also worship Shmalor, this ritual is followed by the "Reflection of Power"—a meditative practice where they contemplate how best to use the enhanced abilities granted by Aminion's blessing, ensuring that raw power is always guided by strategic wisdom.

WIKI: {
	NAME: "Temple of Aminion",
	CATEGORY: "Religion",
	TEXT: "The Temple of Aminion venerates the Fallen One, Lord of Chaos, who rebelled against the cosmic order. Followers practice ritual scarification and blood offerings, believing that through submission to suffering, one transcends mortal limitations. The Hellspawns are Aminion's most devoted followers, while the Bloodelves follow the 'Crimson Covenant' aspect focused on blood consumption and immortality. Bloodelves uniquely combine worship of Aminion with reverence for Shmalor, using the former's blood gifts for power and the latter's cunning for strategic application. This dual worship grants them both supernatural abilities and the wisdom to use them effectively, particularly in their complex political system known as 'The Eternal Game.'",
},
