NAME: "Temple of Shmalor",
NAMES: "Temples of Shmalor",
DESC: "The Temple of Shmalor honors the Trickster of the Astari, master of cunning, deception, and opportunity. Neither wholly good nor evil, Shmalor embodies the grey areas of morality and the unexpected twists of fate. During the first war of the gods, Shmalor played all sides against each other, ultimately surviving through clever manipulation while appearing to have been slain by the Tilapi chieftain Trinduri—a ruse that allowed Shmalor to operate from the shadows and accumulate power unnoticed.

Shmalor's temples are architecturally unpredictable, often incorporating optical illusions, secret passages, and rooms that seem to change their layout between visits. Offerings are made on silver mirrors that reflect distorted images of the worshippers, symbolizing how Shmalor reveals hidden truths by twisting perception. Instead of blood sacrifices, devotees offer valuable items they've acquired through cunning or trickery, with the most prized offerings being treasures obtained by outwitting a powerful adversary without violence.

The Northmen are among Shmalor's most devoted followers, seeing in the deity a reflection of their own values of cleverness in trade and negotiation. They honor Shmalor through their 'Silver-Tongue Sagas'—elaborate tales of deals, deceptions, and diplomatic victories that celebrate cunning over brute force. Before important trading expeditions, they perform "Shmalor's Bargain," offering a portion of their expected profits in exchange for the deity's blessing of foresight in negotiations. Many carry small silver mirrors as talismans, believing they reflect Shmalor's cunning insight and reveal hidden opportunities where others see only obstacles. In times of crisis, Northmen attribute their remarkable ability to find unexpected solutions to "Shmalor's Whisper"—the sudden flash of insight that reveals a path forward when all conventional options seem exhausted.

Bloodelves also revere Shmalor for the deity's immortal perspective and mastery of manipulation, incorporating aspects of Shmalor's teachings into their political maneuvering within the Crimson Court. Their elite "Order of the Silver Mirror" practices "The Thousand Faces" technique—a form of social camouflage that allows them to present different personas to different allies and rivals. Those who master this art are said to receive "Shmalor's Insight"—the ability to perceive others' true motivations behind carefully constructed facades. Before major political moves, Bloodelf nobles perform the "Opportunity Divination," seeking Shmalor's guidance in identifying the most advantageous course of action in the complex landscape of court politics.

Worshippers of Shmalor believe the deity bestows several tangible blessings upon the faithful. Chief among these is "Shmalor's Foresight"—an uncanny ability to anticipate shifts in circumstance and position oneself to benefit from changing conditions. Those who regularly pray at Shmalor's temples report experiencing moments of perfect clarity during critical decisions, allowing them to see multiple pathways forward and choose the most advantageous. Merchants who make regular offerings claim to develop an intuitive sense for profitable opportunities that others overlook, while diplomats and politicians attribute their ability to read subtle social cues to Shmalor's blessing.

In times of danger, devotees call upon "Shmalor's Escape"—the knack for finding unexpected exits from seemingly hopeless situations. Warriors who honor Shmalor before battle often report discovering critical weaknesses in enemy formations or terrain advantages that turn the tide in their favor. This is not seen as mere luck but as the deity actively revealing opportunities to those who have proven themselves worthy through their cleverness and adaptability.

Shmalor represents opportunity, adaptability, and the power of intellect over strength. Followers believe that every challenge presents multiple solutions, and the cleverest path is usually superior to the most direct one. They see rigid moral codes as limitations that prevent true understanding of the world's complexity, preferring instead to judge actions by their ingenuity and effectiveness. The deity teaches that survival itself is the ultimate victory, and that those who can adapt to changing circumstances will always outlast those who cannot bend.

The most sacred ritual in Shmalor's worship is the Night of a Thousand Faces, performed during the winter solstice. Worshippers don elaborate masks representing different aspects of their personalities and engage in complex games of strategy and deception. The winners are believed to receive Shmalor's blessing of foresight and opportunity for the coming year, while the losers gain valuable lessons in humility and adaptation. Following this ritual, many devotees report experiencing prophetic dreams that reveal hidden opportunities in their personal or professional lives—insights that often prove remarkably accurate when acted upon with proper timing and discretion.

Priests of Shmalor teach that the deity's favor must be continuously earned through demonstrations of wit and adaptability. Unlike other gods who might value blind faith or ritual observance, Shmalor respects results—those who successfully navigate complex challenges using their wits are considered to have performed the truest form of worship. This pragmatic approach has made Shmalor's temples centers of practical knowledge, where devotees exchange information, forge connections, and seek advice on everything from business ventures to political strategies to personal conflicts. The priests themselves serve less as moral authorities than as mentors who help worshippers identify opportunities and develop the mental flexibility needed to seize them."

WIKI: {
	NAME: "Temple of Shmalor",
	CATEGORY: "Religion",
	TEXT: "The Temple of Shmalor honors the Trickster of the Astari, master of cunning, deception, and opportunity. Neither wholly good nor evil, Shmalor embodies the grey areas of morality and the unexpected twists of fate. Shmalor's temples are architecturally unpredictable, often incorporating optical illusions, secret passages, and rooms that seem to change their layout between visits. The Northmen are among Shmalor's most devoted followers, seeing in the deity a reflection of their own values of cleverness in trade and negotiation. Bloodelves also revere Shmalor for the deity's immortal perspective and mastery of manipulation, incorporating aspects of Shmalor's teachings into their political maneuvering within the Crimson Court. Worshippers believe Shmalor grants them the ability to see opportunities others miss and find unexpected solutions to seemingly impossible problems.",
},
