QUOTES: [

""To be rich is to be content with what one has.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""True wisdom is knowing you know nothing.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""Wine and children speak the truth.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""Men have a need to form an opinion regarding every aspect of life. If only they would doubt their convictions more, the whole world would fall silent.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""What I know comes from knowing human nature. What I know of human nature comes from knowing myself.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""Without knowing why you know that which you know, you know nothing and are a fool.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""Look to the prince who sits to the side, his gaze absent in deep reflection, as the princes around him are beating their chests and babbling like panicked Dinoris birds. For in his mind lie the future and hope of man.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""There are two within each man, the beast and the philosopher. For the philosopher to flower, he must not wrestle the beast, he must reconcile himself with it.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""I do not argue. I do not fight. For three ages, Men have done so, and none have ever truly won.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""Do not be fooled into thinking that wisdom comes from books, robes or piety. Wisdom is mined in the darkest hollows of your mind, where few dare go":::-The Burned Preacher",
""There are two forms of power. One relies on Auroch-minded men to blindly do your bidding. This power is frail and temporary. The other comes from embracing your loneliness, mortality and insignificance. This power is eternal.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""Truth is the greatest of terrors, and the fear of it is what causes kingdoms to rise and fall.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""Fools speak of Athuri and Aminion as good and bad. In truth there are only opposing wills, and condemning one will or the other will be the downfall of Man.":::-The Burned Preacher",
""Men call me wise because I know nothing, and therefore I judge little. Wisdom lies in the questions asked, not in the answers given.":::-The Burned Preacher",

""A cup of grains must be soaked with the urine of a virgin on the second day of spring. If the grain sprouts while the Drandiloin are in bloom, great harvests will be had that year.":::-Memmoth the Wise",
""Regular headaches can be cured by rubbing honey on the loins of the patient and drinking a potion of Yertree ash mixed with cyanide.":::-Memmoth the Wise",
 
""At dusk the great Queen Ammoroth set upon the village, and swiftly overran its defences with her Tilapi host. The children were slain and the women put in chains. For two days the men were defiled, then slaughtered and eaten.":::-Chronicles of the Third Age 67:153",
""The preacher was chained and led up to the hill. Placed on the pyre, he was once again given a chance to renounce his teachings and apologise to the priests to which he replied "I bear no ill will towards these fools, nor do I towards stones or sticks".":::-Chronicles of the Third Age 49:87",


""Before time, there was only the gray fog. Then the light separated from the darkness and the Avarii and Averii came to be. The forces of order and chaos. Light and dark.":::-the Summerion 1:23",
""And so, the battle horns sounded and the Avarii sprung forth and clashed with the Averii. The bones of the fallen formed the mountains, their blood the rivers, and their flesh became the soil.":::-the Summerion 1:32",
""The sun is the golden chariot of Magna Ivaltar. At dawn he leads the Avarii against the Averii and drives them back into the void. At dusk he is slayed, and his forces scatter across the night sky as specks of light. So shall it remain until the Sothering.":::-the Summerion 1:48", 
""Thus, the Avarii sent down the Astarii to spread order and light to what had become the land below."::: the Summerion 2:12",
""The Astarii created many beautiful things of life in this age, which we will never see their like. Great, winged beasts with coats white as snow; serene fish, three galleys long; and trees reaching for the sky, far beyond our sight.":::-the Summerion 3:11",
""Yet Aminion, in his pride, heeding not the will of the Avarii, went farther into the hollows of the earth where darkness and the will of the Averii held their sway. This turned him forever to wickedness.":::-the Summerion 3:64",
""Aminion had gathered in his host great winged lizards, giant worms and snakes, and insects the size of an Onx. As they clashed with the Cantors at the foot of mount Adminion, the earth shook and fire erupted from its peak. The fire consumed all of the great creation and turned it into ash."::the Summerion 4:78",
""And so, Aminion was stripped of his armour and chained. The Astarii rose a mountain upon his prison that towered to the sky. Protective spells were inscripted so that he was unable to leave on his own accord. There he would remain for a millennium.":::-the Summerion 5:6",
""Their first creation were the Dondorians. Made to mine the mountains, and guard the snowy passages from the remaining creatures of Aminion. Crator gave them the skill of crafting.":::-the Summerion 6:12",
""Unlike those who came before, the Astarii bestowed upon Men the gift of thought, choice and reason. Men would dictate their own path. They were made to be the true children of the Astarii.":::-the Summerion 7:102",
""This great king Allutar was now the master of all, and his halls were filled with treasure and riches. The Dondorian kings gave him homage, the Cretonians of the plains were his vassals, and the Tilapi of the eastern forest feared his name. Yet, his thirst was not satisfied, and he would not settle for mere mortality.":::-the Summerion 8:22",
""Thus, the gates of the prison swung open. The men's knees buckled and they fell into despair and insanity as Aminion emerged from the darkness. For a moment King Allutar knew what great evil he had unleashed upon the world, yet with the promise of immortality, he bowed deep before his new lord and swore his allegiance.":::-the Summerion 8:31",
""The phage that was unleashed spread across the land. Those who succumbed to it were transformed to hideous beasts, consumed by rage. They gathered around the banner of the evil lord, and set upon their own kin and tore them to pieces. Only the Cantors were strong enough to keep a stand, yet many fell until they were all but extinct.":::-the Summerion 9:56",
""The battle was lost and hope gone when the night sky was lit. It was the gilded chariots of the Astarii that had come down from the mountain of Darai to save their creation, Athuri leading the vanguard himself with his Lightbringer.":::-the Summerion 9:107",  
""The body of Aminon was cut into four pieces and sent to the corners of the world to be guarded by the order of the Everii. His pendant was taken to the top of Darai to be guarded by Athurii himself.":::-the Summerion 9:157",  
""As punishment for the betrayal of their creations, there would be ten winters instead of summers where neither crop or tree would grow, and the cattle would fail. The cities of Allutar would be buried in sand and mud, his name erased from all history, and his soul damned to an eternity in the darkness with the Averii.":::-the Summeroin 9:169",  
],