Ok, so sprites...
Sprites comes in different sizes. The smallest size is 1x1 tile, which is 16x16 pixels. These are found in the folder 1x1. 

In each image file, there may be multiple sprites horizontally. These are called variations. One of these will be selected randomly by the game.
In each file, each row must have the same amount of variations,
Each row in a file is a different sprite. This is so that you don't need one file per sprite, but can have several, so that there's not millions of files everywhere.
Each file gets evaluated by the game, and it calculates how many rows and variations there are.
You can create new files as you wish when you mod. I recommend not fiddling with the vanilla ones, since it's cleaner for a modder to make separate files.

When referencing a sprite, it might look like this:

2x2_CARPET: {
	FPS: 0,
	SHADOW_LENGTH: 2,
	SHADOW_HEIGHT: 0,
	SHADOW_SPRITE: false,
	COLOR: {R: 255, G: 255, B: 255},
	FRAMES: [
		BED: 4,
	],
},

the key 2x2_CARPET indicates what kind of sprite it is. 2x2 are 2x2 tiles, and found in the 2x2 folder. "CARPET" is just a description.
FPS: A sprite becomes an animation if multiple frames are specified, this is the speed of the animation. If FPS = 0, and there are several frames, a random frame will be selected. 
SHADOW_LENGTH: means the length of the shadow.
SHADOW_HEIGHT: is the shadow offset to the ground. Like if something is floating in the air.  
SHADOW_SPRITE: is a special boolean, can be left out, but if true, the last variation is a special shadow sprite, where opacity of each pixel is the height over the ground.
FRAMES: A bunch of file references, or just one if it's not an animation.
	BED: 4 - The file, which is in the folder 2x2 is named BED.png. The row is NR 4.
COLOR: the color mask to be applied. Optional.


A few weird exceptions exist:

1x1, 2x2, 3x3 and full can all be represented by a "combo" sprite.
So, if you have a 1x1, and you reference a file that does not exist in the folder 1x1, then the game will look for the file in the "combo" folder, and sew up a 1x1 from that sprite.
The same goes for 2x2, 3x3 and full

