DESC_LONG: "The Bloodelves are an ancient race of aristocratic predators whose civilization is built upon the twin pillars of blood magic and ruthless domination. Their alabaster skin and crimson eyes mark them as beings touched by Aminion's power, while their tall, slender forms move with an unnerving grace that betrays their supernatural origins. Bloodelves age at one-seventh the rate of humans, with lifespans extending several centuries—but only if they regularly consume the life essence of others. Without this vital sustenance, they succumb to "The Withering"—a horrific process where their immortal bodies rapidly deteriorate, skin cracking like ancient parchment before their desiccated forms collapse into dust. Their architecture reflects this obsession with permanence, with sprawling estates of black marble and crimson glass designed to last millennia, often incorporating torture chambers and blood collection facilities disguised as elegant bathhouses and dining halls.

At the heart of Bloodelf society lies the Crimson Court—a labyrinthine political structure where noble houses compete for influence through a complex dance of assassination, betrayal, and calculated cruelty. Within this cutthroat environment, devotion to both Aminion and Shmalor defines the most successful houses. The primary worship of Aminion grants them mastery over blood magic and the power to dominate others, while their secondary reverence for Shmalor provides the cunning to wield that power effectively. The "Crimson Covenant," the inner circle of the Court, comprises those who have demonstrated the most efficient methods of blood extraction and slave management, their expertise used to further Aminion's agenda of domination and suffering.

Bloodelf aristocrats maintain vast "blood farms" where captives from other races are kept in varying states of consciousness, their life essence methodically drained to the precise point before death, then allowed to recover just enough to be harvested again. The most prized slaves are those with exceptional vitality or unique blood properties—Froggians for their regenerative capabilities, Satyrs for their connection to natural energies, and occasionally even fellow Bloodelves who have fallen from grace. These unfortunate souls are kept in specialized facilities called "Vitae Gardens," where they hang suspended in elaborate contraptions designed to maximize blood flow and minimize resistance. The sight of these gardens—with hundreds of bodies arranged in concentric circles around central collection basins—is considered an aesthetic triumph among the Bloodelf nobility.

The most prestigious political advisors in Bloodelf society are those who have demonstrated mastery of their dual worship system—using Aminion's power to extract maximum life essence from their slaves while applying Shmalor's cunning to avoid wasteful deaths. These advisors often carry ornate blood vials as symbols of their office, using them in elaborate ceremonies where they symbolically drink the essence of their enemies to demonstrate dominance. The most successful noble houses maintain private blood sanctums within their estates, with Aminion's altar—a basin of perpetually flowing blood—always positioned as the centerpiece of their unholy rituals.

The core of Bloodelf religion is encapsulated in their saying: "Through blood we endure, through suffering we rule." This dual worship is not seen as contradictory but complementary—Aminion's blood magic provides the immortality that fuels their society, while Shmalor's teachings on adaptability and opportunity guide how that power is deployed. In the complex political landscape of the Crimson Court, mere cruelty is insufficient; knowing precisely how to inflict maximum suffering while preserving one's resources makes the difference between ascension and destruction.

The most sacred Bloodelf ritual is the "Crimson Communion," where initiates simultaneously drain multiple victims to the point of death, absorbing not only their blood but fragments of their souls. During these ceremonies, the high priests first invoke Aminion with the words "By blood we conquer death" before turning to Shmalor with "By suffering we master life." This ritual symbolizes the perfect balance between their two patron deities and is considered the pinnacle of Bloodelf religious practice. Those who survive the ritual gain enhanced powers and a temporary reprieve from The Withering, their bodies rejuvenated by the massive influx of life energy.

Bloodelf children are taught the "Doctrine of Necessary Cruelty" alongside their lessons in etiquette and blood magic. These teachings emphasize that mercy is the true evil, as it denies both the superior being their rightful sustenance and the inferior being their purpose as vessels of life energy. Young Bloodelves who show particular aptitude for efficient blood extraction are sometimes selected for special mentorship by members of the Crimson Covenant, who train them in the art of prolonging suffering to maximize the quality of harvested blood while minimizing resource expenditure.

In warfare, Bloodelf commanders employ strategies that reflect their dual worship—using Aminion's blood magic for raw destructive power while applying Shmalor's principles of deception and strategic cruelty. Their military doctrine emphasizes capturing rather than killing enemies whenever possible, as living prisoners represent valuable resources rather than mere victories. Their infamous "Blood Legions" are accompanied by mobile extraction units that process captured enemies on the battlefield, fueling the Bloodelf warriors with fresh vitality that makes them nearly unstoppable in prolonged conflicts.

The highest echelons of Bloodelf society practice what they call "The Eternal Game"—political strategies that may take decades or even centuries to come to fruition. This approach takes advantage of their extended lifespans to outmaneuver shorter-lived races who cannot maintain consistent political direction across generations. Bloodelves who successfully complete century-spanning schemes are honored with the title "Deathless Lord," indicating their mastery of both Aminion's power and Shmalor's cunning—and their success in staving off The Withering through particularly efficient blood-harvesting operations.

Bloodelves reproduce at an exceptionally slow rate, with females capable of conception perhaps once a century. This biological limitation has shaped their entire culture, making them fiercely protective of their young and obsessively focused on extending their already considerable lifespans through the consumption of life essence—a practice blessed by Aminion himself. The most ancient Bloodelves, those who have survived for millennia through careful blood consumption, develop a crystalline quality to their skin and eyes that marks them as "The Undying"—beings who have so thoroughly mastered the extraction of life essence that they have transcended the normal limitations of their kind.

In warfare, Bloodelves excel at stealth, archery, and psychological manipulation. Their archers can strike with supernatural accuracy even in complete darkness, their arrows often enchanted with blood magic that drains vitality from victims. Rather than overwhelming force, they prefer to isolate targets through misdirection and fear, striking when enemies are most vulnerable. Their legendary patience, honed through centuries of sleepless nights, allows them to orchestrate elaborate stratagems spanning decades or even centuries. The most feared Bloodelf generals are those who have mastered the perfect balance between Aminion's destructive power and Shmalor's strategic cunning, their armies leaving not corpses but desiccated husks in their wake.

Bloodelves approach relationships as carefully cultivated investments, with a clear hierarchy between themselves and the lesser beings they consider worthy only of servitude. They maintain networks of informants, vassals, and carefully selected slaves, each relationship precisely managed for maximum benefit and longevity of essence extraction. While capable of genuine loyalty to those who earn their respect, their immortal perspective makes them view most alliances as temporary arrangements. Their diplomatic corps employs blood-oaths that magically bind parties to agreements, with severe consequences for betrayal. Despite their predatory nature, they prefer sustainable relationships over wasteful violence, seeing themselves as refined caretakers rather than mindless monsters—the inevitable apex predators in a world of lesser beings.

NAME: "Bloodelf",
NAMES: "Bloodelves",
POSSESSIVE: "Bloodelf",
POSSESSIVES: "Bloodelf",
PRONOUN_HE: ["he", "she",],
PRONOUN_HEC: ["He", "She",],
PRONOUN_HIM: ["him", "her",],
PRONOUN_HIMC: ["Him", "Her",],
PRONOUN_HIS: ["his", "her",],
PRONOUN_HISC: ["His", "Her",],
PRONOUN_HIMSELF: ["himself", "herself",],
PRONOUN_HIMSELFC: ["Himself", "Herself",],

HELLO: [
	"Your presence is... noted in our ledgers.",
	"The Crimson Court acknowledges your existence.",
	"Speak your purpose. Time is precious to the long-lived.",
	"Your blood sings an... interesting melody.",
	"The House acknowledges your presence, for now.",
	"Aminion grants power, Shmalor reveals when to use it. Remember this.",
	"The Eternal Game continues. What move do you represent?",
	"Both power and cunning are required here. Possess you either?",
	"The Crimson Court observes. Tread carefully.",
],

GOODBYE: [
	"Your role in the Eternal Game is... evolving.",
	"Until the Crimson Court reflects on your fate again.",
	"Your blood will remember this encounter, even if your mind does not.",
	"May Aminion grant you power and Shmalor the wisdom to wield it.",
	"The Court will be watching your... progress.",
	"Your reflection remains in our minds long after you depart.",
	"The next move is yours. Choose wisely.",
	"Blood remembers what minds forget.",
	"Your usefulness determines our next meeting.",
	"The Dual Sight follows your path.",
],

CURSE: [
	"Blood and ashes!",
	"Crimson damnation!",
	"Moonless night!",
	"Bloodless eternity!",
	"Sunfire and silver!",
	"Hemomancer's folly!",
	"Vitae betrayal!",
	"Crimson court's disgrace!",
	"Sanguine treachery!",
	"Bloodline's end!",
	"Shmalor's twisted reflection!",
	"Silver Mirror's crack!",
	"Thousand Faces revealed!",
	"By Aminion's spilled blood!",
	"Crimson Mirror shattered!",
	"Dual Sight blinded!",
	"Eternal Game forfeit!",
	"Blood Gift wasted!",
	"May your reflection betray you!",
	"Void in the Mirror!",
],

INSULT: [ 
	"daywalker",
	"sun-lover",
	"warm-blood",
	"pulse-bearer",
	"mortality-bound",
	"light-dweller",
	"vein-waster",
	"blood-ignorant",
	"thirst-denier",
	"hemomancy-blind",
	"crimson-diluted",
	"shadow-feared",
	"moonlight-weakened",
	"bloodline-tainted",
	"mirror-blind",
	"opportunity-missing",
	"power-squandering",
	"covenant-breaking",
	"reflection-ignorant",
	"game-losing",
	"Aminion-forsaken",
	"Shmalor-abandoned",
],
INSULTING: [ 
	"flame-cold",
	"spirit-deaf",
	"balance-blind",
	"ancestor-forgotten",
	"chi-blocked",
	"mountain-fallen",
	"path-straying",
	"harmony-breaking",
	"discipline-weak",
	"pushup-failing",
	"forest-ignorant",
	"meridian-blocked",
	"chakra-misaligned",
	"inner-peace-lacking",
	"form-imperfect",
	"spirit-vessel-cracked",
],
LORD: [
	"Blood Archon",
	"Crimson Sovereign",
	"Night Lord",
	"Eternal Thirst",
	"Midnight Count",
	"Bloodline Master",
	"Dusk Prince",
	"Shadow Nobility",
	"Immortal Sire",
	"Crimson Court Ruler",
	"Hemomancer Supreme",
	"Vitae Sovereign",
	"Sanguine Majesty",
	"Nightshade Royalty",
	"Bloodweaver Duke",
	"Crimson Patriarch",
	"Shadowvein Monarch",
],

CITY: [
	"blood-haven",
	"night-citadel",
	"crimson court",
	"shadow-spire",
	"moonless manor",
	"eternal sanctuary",
	"dusk cathedral",
	"veiled dominion",
	"crimson estate",
],

OTHERS: [
	"mortals",
	"daywalkers",
	"pulse-bearers",
	"sun-dwellers",
	"warm-veins",
	"light-lovers",
	"blood-vessels",
	"life-wasters",
	"temporary ones",
],

SELVES: [
	"eternal ones",
	"night children",
	"blood-bound",
	"shadow-walkers",
	"crimson nobility",
	"moonlit kin",
	"thirst-bearers",
	"immortal bloodlines",
],

SELF: [
	"night child",
	"blood-bound",
	"shadow-walker",
	"crimson noble",
	"moonlit one",
	"thirst-bearer",
	"immortal scion",
],

CHILDREN: [
	"fledglings",
	"blood-young",
	"night-born",
	"shadow-children",
	"crimson heirs",
	"moonlit offspring",
],

DESC: "Aristocratic vampire-like beings with pointed ears who drain life essence from slaves to extend their already long lifespans. They reproduce very slowly, never sleep, and possess supernatural grace, predatory instincts, and immortal patience.",

ARMY_NAMES: [
	"Crimson Sentinels",
	"Night Hunters",
	"Blood Sworn",
	"Shadow Legion",
	"Dusk Stalkers",
	"Immortal Guard",
	"Midnight Archers",
	"Bloodline Defenders",
	"Eternal Thirst Brigade",
	"Crimson Court Vanguard",
	"Moonless Assassins",
	"Sanguine Wardens",
	"Hemomancer's Elite",
	"Vitae Harvesters",
	"Bloodweaver Archers",
	"Nightshade Infiltrators",
	"Crimson Talon Legion",
	"Shadowvein Stalkers",
	"Sanguine Nobility Guard",
	"Duskfall Marksmen",
],

PROS: [
    "Superior archery skills",
    "Fast movement",
    "Enhanced scholarly abilities",
],

CONS: [
    "Poor cold resistance",
    "Weak mining abilities",
    "Low farming efficiency",
    "Reduced submission tendency",
    "Poor sanity",
],

HISTORY: "Bloodelf history begins with the fall of Aminion, the once-noble deity who was corrupted and became the Lord of Chaos. When Aminion was freed from his imprisonment by mortals seeking immortality, a select group of elven nobles offered themselves as vessels for his power. These first Bloodelves underwent a horrific transformation known as the 'Crimson Ascension,' their bodies and souls forever altered by Aminion's chaotic essence. Their skin paled to alabaster, their eyes turned crimson, and they developed an insatiable thirst for life essence that could only be slaked through the consumption of blood.

In the aftermath of this transformation, these newly-born Bloodelves discovered a terrible truth—their immortality came with a price. Without regular infusions of life essence from others, they would succumb to 'The Withering'—a process where their immortal bodies rapidly deteriorated, skin cracking like ancient parchment before their desiccated forms collapsed into dust. The first generation suffered tremendous losses as they learned through bitter experience exactly how much blood was needed and how frequently it must be consumed to stave off this fate.

It was during this period of crisis that Shmalor, Queen of the Agonosh, approached the surviving Bloodelves and offered them a bargain: she would teach them the arts of efficient blood harvesting and strategic thinking if they would acknowledge her as a secondary patron. The Bloodelves accepted this arrangement, establishing the dual worship system that continues to this day. With Aminion's power and Shmalor's cunning now in balance, they were able to establish the first Bloodelf enclave, Crimsonveil, hidden deep within ancient forests where they could practice their blood rituals and maintain their vast slave pens away from prying eyes.

The defining moment in Bloodelf history came during the 'War of Shadows,' when an alliance of Froggians and Satyrs—followers of Athuri—attempted to eradicate what they saw as an abomination against natural order. The Bloodelves, vastly outnumbered but desperate to protect their blood supply, employed guerrilla tactics and blood magic to devastating effect. Rather than facing their enemies directly, they struck from the shadows, drained key leaders of their essence, and used the harvested power to create 'blood plagues' that decimated the alliance forces. This victory cemented the Bloodelves' belief in their dual worship system and established their reputation as masters of both magical power and strategic cruelty.

The establishment of the Crimson Court followed shortly after the War of Shadows, as the surviving noble houses realized that unregulated competition for blood slaves would lead to their mutual destruction. The Court established the 'Laws of Sustainable Harvest,' which dictated how many slaves each house could maintain based on their status and contributions to the collective. These laws, while seemingly restrictive, actually ensured the long-term survival of both the Bloodelves and their precious resource—preventing the short-sighted overconsumption that had doomed many of the first generation.

In recent centuries, Bloodelf society has evolved into a complex hierarchy of noble houses, each maintaining their own territories and specialized blood farms. House Crimson Thorn specializes in breeding programs designed to produce slaves with enhanced blood properties, House Nightshade excels at political assassination and the acquisition of exotic specimens, while House Duskweaver maintains the largest network of slave hunters throughout the realms. Above all these stands the Royal House of Sanguine, whose matriarch, Queen Morrigan the Eternal, has ruled for over five centuries through a masterful application of both Aminion's power and Shmalor's cunning—and through the consumption of only the most rarefied blood, harvested from beings of exceptional power.

RELIGION: "Bloodelf religious practices center around their unique dual worship system honoring both Aminion and Shmalor, with Aminion as the primary deity and Shmalor in a respected but secondary position. This theological arrangement is physically represented in their temples, where Aminion's altar—a basin of perpetually flowing blood—always stands as the centerpiece of their unholy rituals, while symbols of Shmalor adorn the periphery.

The cornerstone of Bloodelf worship is the 'Crimson Communion,' performed monthly during the dark of the moon. During this ceremony, high-ranking Bloodelves gather in circular chambers where specially selected slaves are suspended above central collection basins. The ritual begins with blood sacrifices to Aminion, as the slaves are methodically drained to the precise point before death. As the victims' blood flows into channels carved into the floor, forming complex magical patterns, the participants drink from ceremonial chalices while reciting the 'Invocation of Eternal Life': 'Through Aminion's gift we conquer death; through Shmalor's wisdom we master life.'

Bloodelf priests, known as 'Blood Harvesters,' undergo decades of training to master both aspects of their faith. They learn the complex blood magic formulas attributed to Aminion alongside the subtle arts of efficient extraction and strategic foresight taught by Shmalor. These priests serve as both religious leaders and overseers of the great blood farms, their dual expertise making them invaluable to noble houses navigating the treacherous waters of the Crimson Court. The most skilled among them can extract life essence without killing the donor, allowing for sustainable harvesting that can continue for decades—a practice they consider the highest expression of their faith.

The most sacred Bloodelf religious text is the 'Codex of Eternal Thirst,' a tome allegedly written in blood by the first Bloodelves under the direct guidance of both Aminion and Shmalor. The Codex contains not only the rituals and prayers of their faith but also detailed instructions for blood extraction, slave management, and the prevention of The Withering. Each noble house possesses a copy of the Codex, though it is said that only the Royal House of Sanguine holds the complete, uncensored version that includes the most powerful blood magic rituals.

Bloodelf religious holidays include the 'Festival of First Thirst,' commemorating the transformation of the first Bloodelves; the 'Harvest Moon,' when slaves of exceptional quality are drained in elaborate public ceremonies; and the 'Night of Renewal,' a time when the most ancient Bloodelves perform specialized rituals to stave off The Withering for another year. During these celebrations, blood consumption is ritualized and elevated from a mere necessity to a sacred communion with Aminion, while strategic games of political maneuvering honor Shmalor.

Unlike most religions that promise salvation or enlightenment, the Bloodelf faith offers the promise of power and immortality through the perfect balance of Aminion's gifts and Shmalor's teachings. They believe that those who master this balance will eventually transcend The Withering entirely, becoming immortal beings who no longer need to consume blood to survive—the ultimate evolution of their kind. This state of transcendence, known as 'The Crimson Ascendance,' is the ultimate goal of every devout Bloodelf, though only a handful in their long history are rumored to have achieved it.

RELATIONS: "Bloodelf relationships with other races are shaped by their dual worship of Aminion and Shmalor and their constant need for blood to stave off The Withering, creating a complex web of predatory alliances, bitter rivalries, and calculated neutrality.

With the Hellspawns, fellow worshippers of Aminion, they maintain 'The Crimson Accord'—a formal alliance based on shared religious devotion and complementary strengths. While Hellspawns provide brute force and intimidation, Bloodelves contribute strategic planning and magical expertise. Both races acknowledge Aminion as their primary deity, though Bloodelves consider their approach more sophisticated than the Hellspawns' chaotic brutality. This alliance is pragmatic rather than warm, with each side wary of the other's potential betrayal, yet bound by their common devotion to the Fallen One. The Bloodelves occasionally supply the Hellspawns with slaves who have been drained to the point where their blood is no longer nutritious but their bodies can still serve as labor—a gesture of alliance that costs them nothing while cementing their superior position.

Toward the Froggians and Satyrs, primary worshippers of Athuri, Bloodelves harbor a deep-seated hatred born of both religious animosity and practical considerations—these races' natural vitality and connection to life energies make them exceptionally valuable as blood sources. Bloodelves take particular pleasure in capturing these races alive, keeping them in specialized containment facilities where their natural regenerative abilities can be exploited for maximum blood yield. The most prized specimens are kept alive for decades, their life essence methodically harvested in a process the Bloodelves call 'The Eternal Vintage.' Beyond their value as resources, Bloodelves view these races as naive idealists whose devotion to harmony and balance stands in direct opposition to Aminion's chaotic nature.

The Finestorians and Pasunkas, followers of Crator, are approached with 'Calculated Respect'—their craftsmanship and discipline acknowledged as valuable, even while their rigid adherence to order is viewed as limiting. Bloodelves often establish trade relationships with these races, exchanging luxury goods and magical artifacts while secretly identifying potential targets for their slave hunters. They find the Crator worshippers' predictability both useful for planning and somewhat contemptible for its lack of adaptability. Bloodelf nobles particularly value Finestorian artisans, sometimes keeping them as 'honored guests' for decades while slowly draining their life essence—a process disguised as a cultural exchange program.

The Wormlings, with their primary devotion to Shmalor and the God Emperor, evoke 'Cautious Curiosity' from the Bloodelves. As secondary worshippers of Shmalor themselves, Bloodelves recognize a kinship with the Wormlings, though they find their parasitic nature and hive mind somewhat alien. More importantly, Wormling blood has proven largely useless in staving off The Withering, its alien properties sometimes causing violent reactions in Bloodelf physiology. This biological incompatibility has prevented more extensive alliances, though Bloodelf scholars often study Wormling society, seeking to better understand Shmalor's influence and potentially incorporate useful aspects into their own practices.

Toward the pragmatic Northmen, Bloodelves maintain an attitude of 'Superior Amusement'—viewing them as useful but ultimately short-lived tools and a reliable source of blood. They appreciate the Northmen's trading networks and craftsmanship but consider their brief lifespans and lack of magical aptitude inherent limitations. Bloodelves often establish elaborate contracts with Northmen merchants, agreements carefully crafted to provide immediate benefits to the humans while securing long-term advantages for the immortal Bloodelves—including clauses that allow for the occasional 'disappearance' of human servants, disguised as accidents or desertions but actually feeding the Bloodelves' eternal thirst."
