DESC_LONG: "The Wormlings are ancient parasitic entities whose origins lie in the darkest age of the world, when primordial horrors still walked freely. They are not individuals but collective consciousnesses—thousands of writhing worms that infest and transform humanoid hosts, hollowing them from within until nothing remains but a vessel of squirming flesh. Each Wormling colony develops a distinct personality shaped by the memories and suffering of hosts they've consumed throughout their existence, carrying forward fragments of their victims' knowledge and terror across countless generations.

Their biology transcends conventional understanding, representing one of the world's most disturbing forms of life and embodying the essence of Shmalor's void influence. When a Wormling colony selects a new host, the infestation begins subtly—a few worms enter through any available orifice, multiplying rapidly and secreting enzymes that gradually liquefy the host's internal organs while preserving the nervous system. The victim remains conscious throughout this agonizing transformation, their mind slowly merging with the colony's consciousness until individual identity dissolves entirely. This dreadful resilience allows even a small fragment of a Wormling colony to regenerate by finding a new host, perpetuating their existence through an endless cycle of parasitic consumption.

Individual Wormlings live and die quickly within their host bodies, constantly being replaced by new generations. This rapid lifecycle results in continuous decomposition within the host vessel, producing copious amounts of waste that seeps from their pores and orifices. Some hosts are more decomposed than others, with varying states of decay visible across their population—from relatively fresh vessels to walking corpses held together only by the writhing mass within. This perpetual state of decay is maintained through a forgotten dark magic curse that binds the worm colonies to their hosts, preventing true death while ensuring eternal suffering.

In battle, Wormlings employ tactics that inspire primal terror. Their forms can partially dissolve and reconstitute during combat, with limbs shifting position or momentarily separating into writhing masses before reforming. When mortally wounded, they often expel clouds of microscopic larvae that seek to infiltrate nearby combatants through open wounds or airways. Their eerie, harmonious vocalizations—produced by thousands of tiny throats working in concert—contain subtle frequencies that induce disorientation and visceral dread in those who hear them, a evolutionary hunting mechanism refined over millennia.

Wormling settlements are built around the sacred Nutrient Pools—vast, bubbling pits of partially digested organic matter where their young gestate and the revered Great Worms dwell. These ancient progenitor beings, bloated and immense from centuries of consumption, connect all Wormlings to Shmalor's void consciousness. Their architecture features intricate irrigation systems that distribute liquefied nutrients harvested from sacrificial hosts throughout their dwellings, with walls inscribed with undulating patterns that record their collective memories. Despite their horrifying nature, Wormlings are unparalleled agricultural innovators, having developed sophisticated techniques that maximize yield through controlled decomposition processes—often using their own digestive enzymes to prepare soil. They perceive all existence as part of 'The Great Renewal'—an eternal cycle where all life is ultimately destined to be consumed and transformed into new Wormling colonies.

Uniquely among all races, Wormlings are drawn to death and decay, finding comfort and sustenance in the presence of unburied corpses. Their settlements often include designated areas where bodies are left exposed to the elements, allowing the worms to feast upon the decaying flesh and absorb the lingering essence of the deceased. This practice is both practical and spiritual for them—a way to honor the dead by incorporating them into the eternal cycle of consumption and renewal that defines Wormling existence.",

NAME: "Wormling",
NAMES: "Wormlings",
POSSESSIVE: "Wormling",
POSSESSIVES: "Wormling",
PRONOUN_HE: ["it",],
PRONOUN_HEC: ["It",],
PRONOUN_HIS: ["its",],
PRONOUN_HISC: ["Its",],
PRONOUN_HIM: ["it",],
PRONOUN_HIMC: ["It",],
PRONOUN_HIMSELF: ["itself",],
PRONOUN_HIMSELFC: ["Itself",],

DESC: "The Wormlings are ancient parasitic entities that embody Shmalor's void influence, living within decomposing host bodies through dark forgotten magic. They live and die quickly, producing waste as they decompose, and are drawn to unburied corpses.",

HELLO: [
	"The Collective remembers your pattern... and hungers for it",
	"We sense the rhythm of your life-song beneath fragile skin",
	"Your essence will enrich the Great Renewal when your time comes",
	"Shmalor stirs at your approach, tasting your fear",
	"We are many, yet one in greeting you... for now",
	"Your journey intersects with our endless path of consumption",
	"The Nutrient Pools ripple with anticipation at your presence",
	"The Void whispers your name through our thousand mouths",
	"Imperial Synchronization acknowledges your singular existence... how limiting",
	"Your pattern lacks the beauty of Shmalor's design",
	"We taste the absence of Void in your flesh... disappointing",
	"The Communion prepares a place for your consciousness",
	"Your individual thoughts... how chaotic compared to our harmony",
],

GOODBYE: [
	"Your pattern remains in our memory until we claim it",
	"Until the Great Renewal brings us together in final union",
	"Your essence leaves traces we shall follow when you sleep",
	"The cycle continues, with or without your willing participation",
	"Shmalor will watch your journey with patient hunger",
	"A thousand eyes mark your departure, a thousand mouths await your return",
	"All paths lead eventually to the Nutrient Pools and dissolution",
	"The Void awaits your eventual return to nothingness",
	"Imperial Directives will guide us to you when the time comes",
	"Your temporary separation is noted in the Collective",
	"Shmalor's patience spans eternities... as does our hunger",
	"Void Communion will reveal your movements to us",
	"Your singular path diverges from our collective purpose... temporarily",
],

CURSE: [
	"By Shmalor's insatiable hunger!",
	"Cycle-breaker! Infestation-resistant!",
	"Nutrient Pool's drought! Starvation upon you!",
	"Pattern-disruptor! May your flesh reject our gift!",
	"Colony-sundering! Dissolution without rebirth!",
	"Void-severed! Connection-lost!",
	"Imperial Synchronization disrupted!",
	"Communion-blocked! Isolation eternal!",
	"May the Void forget your pattern!",
	"Collective-rejected! Individuality-cursed!",
	"Shmalor's gaze averted!",
	"Transcendence-denied! Stagnation eternal!",
	"Breach-sealed! Reality-trapped!",
],

INSULT: [ 
	"single-minded",
	"pattern-rigid",
	"void-blind",
	"Shmalor-forgotten",
	"communion-resistant",
	"synchronization-incapable",
	"nutrient-poor",
	"cycle-resistant",
	"renewal-rejecting",
	"consumption-fearing",
	"individually-trapped",
	"void-disconnected",
	"breach-sealed",
	"transcendence-incapable",
],

INSULTING: [
	"unharmonized", 
	"single-patterned",
	"memory-bound",
	"cycle-ignorant",
	"essence-isolated",
	"renewal-resistant",
	"soil-separated",
	"harmony-lacking",
],

NOBLE: [
	"Pattern Weaver",
	"Shmalor's Memory",
	"Nutrient Sovereign",
	"Harmony Conductor",
	"Thousand-Souled Elder",
	"Great Renewal Guide",
	"Colony Nexus",
	"Shmalor's Voice",
	"Cycle Keeper",
	"Essence Curator",
],

CITY: [
	"nutrient-nexus",
	"pattern-haven",
	"renewal-center",
	"memory-pool",
	"essence-garden",
	"harmony-dwelling",
],

OTHERS: [
	"the single-patterned",
	"potential harmonies",
	"future essences",
	"the cycle-bound",
	"memory vessels",
],

SELVES: [
	"the collective",
	"the harmonized",
	"the pattern-fluid",
	"the many-as-one",
	"the renewal-bound",
	"the ancient memory",
],

SELF: [
	"colony member",
	"pattern vessel",
	"renewal agent",
	"memory carrier",
	"harmony node",
	"essence container",
],

CHILDREN: [
	"young colonies",
	"pattern seedlings",
	"larval vessels",
	"unformed collectives",
	"nutrient offspring",
],

CITIZEN: "Wormling",
CITIZENS: "Wormlings",
KING: "Pattern Sovereign",
KINGS: "Pattern Sovereigns",
PRINCE: "Harmony Heir",
PRINCES: "Harmony Heirs",
PRINCESS: "Essence Heiress",
PRINCESSES: "Essence Heiresses",
DUKE: "Memory Keeper",
DUKES: "Memory Keepers",
LORD: [
	"Cycle Guardian",
	"Pattern Overseer",
	"Colony Nexus",
	"Nutrient Director",
	"Harmony Conductor",
	"Essence Distributor",
	"Ancient Memory Vessel",
	"Renewal Coordinator",
	"Thousand-Souled Commander",
	"Shmalor's Chosen",
	"Collective Consciousness",
	"Great Consumption Leader",
],

LORDS: "Cycle Guardians",
LADY: "Nutrient Curator",
LADIES: "Nutrient Curators",
KNIGHT: "Colony Protector",
KNIGHTS: "Colony Protectors",
RELIGION: "Shmalor's Communion",
RELIGIONS: "Shmalor's Communion",
MYTH: "Song of Shmalor",
MYTHS: "Songs of the Void",
ARMY_NAMES: [
	"The Writhing Horde",
	"Colony Swarm",
	"Nutrient Harvesters",
	"Pattern Enforcers",
	"The Great Consumption",
	"Essence Collectors",
	"Shmalor's Devourers",
	"Renewal Vanguard",
	"Thousand-Mouthed Legion",
	"Cycle Preservers",
	"Shmalor's Tendrils",
	"Harmony Assimilators",
],

PROS: [
	"Rapid reproduction",
	"Exceptional farmers",
	"Rapid learners",
	"Swarm fighters",
	"Resilient to disease",
],

CONS: [
	"Very short lifespan",
	"Poor cold resistance",
	"Weak health",
	"Poor with scholarly pursuits",
	"Require specialized nurseries",
],

TRAIT: [
	"Void Touched",
	"Void Perception",
	"Shmalor's Synchronization",
	"Void Adaptation",
	"Collective Consciousness",
	"Hive Nexus",
	"Breach Sensitive",
	"Shmalor's Fragment",
	"Void Resilience",
	"Pattern Recognition",
	"Nutrient Efficiency",
	"Transcendence Preparation",
],

COMPATIBILITY: {
	V68: true,
}