DESC_LONG: "The Froggians are amphibious beings whose glistening, mottled skin ranges from vibrant emerald to deep azure, adorned with bioluminescent patterns that pulse with their emotions. Standing slightly shorter than humans, their powerful hind legs allow for impressive leaps, while webbed hands and feet make them exceptional swimmers. Their most striking features are their large, multifaceted eyes that can perceive a broader spectrum of light than other races, and the expandable vocal sacs beneath their chins that produce complex harmonics beyond the range of conventional speech.

Their society is structured around the 'Knowledge Pools'—communal gathering places where information is freely shared and decisions are made through thoughtful consensus rather than hierarchical authority. Froggian settlements are architectural marvels that seamlessly integrate with natural water features, featuring transparent domes, living plant walls, and ingenious irrigation systems that maintain optimal humidity. Their most sacred spaces are the 'Wisdom Springs'—ancient pools where elders commune with ancestral memories preserved in specialized fungi that grow only in these waters.

Froggians approach technology with a unique perspective, developing innovations that work in harmony with natural processes rather than attempting to dominate them. Their distinctive 'living technology' incorporates specially cultivated organisms—plants that generate sustainable light, fungi that process waste into nutrients, and symbiotic bacteria that detect toxins. Their greatest achievement is their 'resonance crystals'—specially grown minerals that can store and transmit information through harmonic vibrations, forming the backbone of their advanced communication network.

In warfare, Froggians are reluctant but formidable opponents who prefer non-lethal methods whenever possible. Their fighting style, the 'Flowing Leap,' emphasizes mobility and disorientation rather than direct confrontation. They excel at ambush tactics, using their natural camouflage and ability to remain motionless for hours to set up perfect positions. Rather than traditional weapons, they employ specialized tools that incapacitate rather than kill—sonic disruptors that cause disorientation, adhesive projectiles that immobilize, and psychoactive toxins secreted from their skin that induce temporary confusion or sleep.

Froggians approach diplomacy with patience and curiosity, seeing each new relationship as an opportunity for mutual growth and learning. They form deep bonds with those who demonstrate respect for knowledge and peaceful coexistence, often sharing their technological innovations with trusted allies. Their diplomatic approach emphasizes finding sustainable solutions that benefit all parties, believing that true progress can only be achieved through cooperation rather than competition. As their ancient proverb states: 'The smallest ripple reaches every shore in time.'",

NAME: "Froggian",
NAMES: "Froggians",
POSSESSIVE: "Froggian",
POSSESSIVES: "Froggian",
DESC: "Amphibious beings who embody wisdom and technology with a pacifist nature, Froggians are characterized by their glistening skin, powerful hind legs, and multifaceted eyes. They excel in creating innovations that work in harmony with natural processes and value knowledge and peaceful coexistence above all else. Their society is built on consensus rather than hierarchy, and they approach conflict with reluctance, preferring non-lethal methods whenever possible.",
PRONOUN_HE: ["he", "she",],
PRONOUN_HEC: ["He", "She",],
PRONOUN_HIM: ["him", "her",],
PRONOUN_HIMC: ["Him", "Her",],
PRONOUN_HIS: ["his", "her",],
PRONOUN_HISC: ["His", "Her",],
PRONOUN_HIMSELF: ["himself", "herself",],
PRONOUN_HIMSELFC: ["Himself", "Herself",],

HELLO: [
	"Greetings, knowledge-seeker",
	"May wisdom flow between us",
	"The pools welcome your presence",
	"Our resonance harmonizes",
	"Clear waters and clear thoughts to you",
	"Your ripples are acknowledged",
	"The cycle continues with your arrival",
	"We sense potential in our meeting",
	"May our exchange bear fruit",
	"The springs of wisdom await",
	"Your presence adds to our collective",
	"We welcome your unique perspective",
],
GOODBYE: [
	"Until our streams cross again",
	"May your path remain moist",
	"Knowledge shared is never lost",
	"The ripples of our meeting continue",
	"We shall reflect upon our exchange",
	"Your wisdom remains with us",
	"Until the next cycle",
	"May your journey be harmonious",
	"The pools await your return",
	"Your ripples will be remembered",
	"Our resonance continues beyond distance",
	"The cycle remains unbroken",
],
CURSE: [
	"Dry waters!",
	"Stagnant pools!",
	"Dissonant harmonics!",
	"Broken resonance!",
	"Murky thoughts!",
	"Disrupted cycles!",
	"Withered lily pads!",
	"Silenced croaks!",
	"Clouded waters!",
	"Fractured crystals!",
	"Poisoned springs!",
	"Discordant vibrations!",
],
INSULT: [ 
	"knowledge-resistant mind",
	"dry-skinned thinker",
	"harmony-disrupting individual",
	"shallow-pool intellect",
	"resonance-deaf being",
	"cycle-breaking entity",
	"wisdom-repelling creature",
	"stagnant-thought carrier",
	"murky-minded one",
	"dissonance-creator",
	"reflection-blind organism",
	"ripple-stopping obstacle",
],
INSULTING: [
	"knowledge-resistant",
	"dry-skinned",
	"harmony-disrupting",
	"shallow-pooled",
	"resonance-deaf",
	"cycle-breaking",
	"wisdom-repelling",
	"stagnant-thought",
	"murky-minded",
	"dissonance-creating",
	"reflection-blind",
	"ripple-stopping",
],
LORD: [
	"Wisdom Keeper",
	"Harmony Guide",
	"Resonance Master",
	"Cycle Shepherd",
	"Knowledge Curator",
	"Spring Guardian",
	"Ripple Sage",
	"Pool Protector",
	"Crystal Harmonizer",
	"Reflection Elder",
	"Current Director",
	"Pattern Weaver",
],
CITY: [
	"wisdom-pool",
	"harmony-spring",
	"resonance-basin",
	"knowledge-marsh",
	"reflection-pond",
	"cycle-waters",
	"crystal-lagoon",
	"thought-stream",
	"vibration-lake",
	"pattern-wetland",
	"ripple-haven",
	"insight-bayou",
],
OTHERS: [
	"land-bound",
	"dry-dwellers",
	"single-spectrum viewers",
	"harmony-seekers",
	"knowledge-sharers",
	"cycle-participants",
	"potential-carriers",
	"wisdom-pursuers",
	"resonance-capable",
	"pattern-followers",
	"ripple-makers",
	"reflection-worthy",
],
SELVES: [
	"water-blessed",
	"harmony-attuned",
	"knowledge-keepers",
	"cycle-observers",
	"resonance-sensitive",
	"pattern-seers",
	"wisdom-cultivators",
	"reflection-capable",
	"spring-connected",
	"vibration-readers",
	"ripple-interpreters",
	"multi-spectrum perceivers",
],
SELF: [
	"water-blessed",
	"harmony-attuned",
	"knowledge-keeper",
	"cycle-observer",
	"resonance-sensitive",
	"pattern-seer",
	"wisdom-cultivator",
	"reflection-capable",
	"spring-connected",
	"vibration-reader",
	"ripple-interpreter",
	"multi-spectrum perceiver",
],
CHILDREN: [
	"tadpoles",
	"spring-young",
	"knowledge-buds",
	"cycle-beginners",
	"harmony-learners",
	"pattern-students",
	"wisdom-seekers",
	"resonance-initiates",
	"reflection-novices",
	"ripple-makers",
	"crystal-tenders",
	"pool-offspring",
],
TITLE_NOBLE: [
	"Resonant",
	"Harmonious",
	"Reflective",
	"Cyclical",
	"Vibrant",
	"Insightful",
	"Patterned",
	"Crystalline",
	"Flowing",
	"Rippling",
	"Perceptive",
	"Balanced",
],
TITLE_KING: [
	"Grand Harmonizer",
	"Supreme Knowledge Keeper",
	"Resonance Sovereign",
	"Cycle Overseer",
	"Pattern Architect",
	"Wisdom Confluence",
	"Crystal Sage",
	"Reflection Monarch",
	"Spring Custodian",
	"Vibration Master",
	"Ripple Emperor",
	"Perception Regent",
],
TITLE_COMMANDER: [
	"Flow Tactician",
	"Harmony Strategist",
	"Leap Commander",
	"Resonance Captain",
	"Pattern Coordinator",
	"Reflection Officer",
	"Cycle Director",
	"Spring Marshal",
	"Knowledge Vanguard",
	"Vibration Leader",
	"Ripple Orchestrator",
	"Perception Guide",
],
ARMY_NAMES: [
	"Flowing Leap Brigade",
	"Harmony Defenders",
	"Resonance Guard",
	"Knowledge Protectors",
	"Spring Sentinels",
	"Cycle Preservers",
	"Pattern Wardens",
	"Crystal Vanguard",
	"Reflection Corps",
	"Vibration Battalion",
	"Ripple Scouts",
	"Perception Rangers",
],


CITY_NAMES: [
	"Harmonium",
	"Resonantia",
	"Cyclica",
	"Springhaven",
	"Crystaldeep",
	"Reflectionia",
	"Patternvale",
	"Wisdompool",
	"Vibrantia",
	"Rippleshire",
	"Perceptium",
	"Balanceton",
],
FIRST_NAMES: [
	"Croak",
	"Ripple",
	"Pond",
	"Spring",
	"Crystal",
	"Harmony",
	"Cycle",
	"Vibrant",
	"Reflect",
	"Pattern",
	"Flow",
	"Leap",
	"Wisdom",
	"Resonant",
	"Perceive",
	"Balance",
	"Stream",
	"Marsh",
	"Lily",
	"Moss",
	"Dew",
	"Rain",
	"Mist",
	"Pool",
],
LAST_NAMES: [
	"Deeppool",
	"Crystalsong",
	"Leapstrong",
	"Pondwatcher",
	"Springkeeper",
	"Harmonycaller",
	"Cycleweaver",
	"Patternseeker",
	"Reflectionreader",
	"Wisdomholder",
	"Resonancefinder",
	"Ripplemaker",
	"Vibrationhearer",
	"Balanceguide",
	"Moistskin",
	"Quicktongue",
	"Wideeyes",
	"Stronglegs",
	"Clearsight",
	"Farjumper",
],
LORE: "The Froggians, or Amevians as they call themselves in their native tongue, are a race of amphibious beings whose society is built upon the foundations of knowledge, harmony, and peaceful coexistence. Their skin, which ranges from emerald green to deep azure blue, is perpetually moist and features bioluminescent patterns that shift with their emotions—calm blue for contemplation, vibrant green for joy, and pulsing amber for concern or warning.

Unlike most races who value material wealth or military might, Froggians prize knowledge and understanding above all else. Their technological development has followed a unique path, focusing on innovations that work with natural processes rather than attempting to dominate them. This 'living technology' incorporates specially cultivated organisms into everyday tools—bioluminescent algae for lighting, specialized fungi for waste processing, and symbiotic bacteria that detect environmental toxins. Their most remarkable achievement is their system of 'resonance crystals'—specially grown minerals that can store and transmit information through harmonic vibrations, forming the backbone of their advanced communication network.

The cornerstone of Froggian society is the 'Knowledge Pool'—a communal gathering place where information is freely shared and decisions are made through thoughtful consensus rather than hierarchical authority. These pools are both literal and metaphorical—actual bodies of water where Froggians gather to discuss important matters while partially submerged (enhancing their natural telepathic abilities), and conceptual spaces where ideas flow freely between individuals regardless of status or background. Their favorite saying, 'The smallest ripple reaches every shore in time,' reflects their belief that even minor contributions to the collective knowledge can eventually have profound impacts.",
HISTORY: "Froggian history begins with what they call the 'First Emergence'—when their ancestors, primitive amphibians dwelling in the vast marshlands of the eastern continent, were exposed to mysterious crystals that fell from the sky during the 'Night of Falling Stars' approximately four millennia ago. These crystals, which the Froggians now call 'Wisdom Shards,' accelerated their evolution dramatically, enhancing their intelligence and granting them limited telepathic abilities when in proximity to water.

Within a few generations, the primitive amphibians had developed into the Froggians we know today—intelligent beings capable of complex thought, speech, and tool use. Under the leadership of Croak-of-Many-Waters, the first Knowledge Keeper, they established their initial settlement, Harmonium, in the heart of the marshlands. This settlement became famous for its beautiful crystal spires and intricate canal system that allowed Froggians to travel throughout the city while remaining partially submerged.

The 'Age of Exploration' followed as Froggians ventured beyond their marshland homes, establishing diplomatic relations with neighboring races. These early encounters were not always peaceful—the aggressive Hellspawns saw the peaceful Froggians as easy targets and launched numerous raids against their settlements. This period of conflict, known as the 'Drying Times,' forced the Froggians to develop defensive technologies and tactics despite their pacifistic nature.

The turning point came during the 'Great Convergence' when Froggian diplomats formed an alliance with the Satyrs, whose affinity for nature complemented Froggian values. Together, they developed specialized weapons capable of repelling Hellspawn raids without causing unnecessary suffering or death. This alliance eventually expanded to include other races, forming the foundation for the current diplomatic landscape.

In recent centuries, Froggians have focused on refining their living technology and expanding their knowledge base, establishing 'Wisdom Outposts' throughout the world where their scholars study local ecosystems and share innovations with friendly races. Their greatest achievement was the creation of the 'Resonance Network'—a system of specially grown crystals that allow instantaneous communication between Froggian settlements regardless of distance, revolutionizing their ability to coordinate and share knowledge.",
CULTURE: "Froggian culture revolves around what they call the 'Three Pools of Being': knowledge, harmony, and cycle. Knowledge represents their commitment to understanding the world and sharing insights freely. Harmony embodies their desire to live in balance with nature and other races. Cycle acknowledges the natural rhythms of life, death, and rebirth that govern all existence.

Their most sacred ceremony is the 'Reflection Ritual'—a coming-of-age tradition where young Froggians spend three days and nights meditating in a sacred pool, communing with ancestral memories preserved in specialized fungi that grow only in these waters. During this time, they receive guidance from past generations and identify their unique contribution to Froggian society—whether as a Knowledge Keeper, Harmony Guide, or Cycle Observer.

Froggian art focuses on capturing and enhancing natural beauty rather than imposing artificial structures. Their architecture incorporates living plants, flowing water, and carefully cultivated crystal formations that refract light in mesmerizing patterns. Their music utilizes their unique vocal capabilities to produce complex harmonics that can be felt as much as heard, creating immersive experiences that convey emotions and concepts beyond the limitations of language.

Despite their peaceful nature, Froggians maintain a defensive force known as the 'Flowing Leap Brigade'—warriors trained in non-lethal combat techniques that emphasize mobility and disorientation rather than direct confrontation. These defenders utilize specialized tools that incapacitate rather than kill—sonic disruptors that cause disorientation, adhesive projectiles that immobilize, and psychoactive toxins secreted from their skin that induce temporary confusion or sleep.

Family structures among Froggians are fluid and communal—children are raised collectively by the entire community, with education focused on identifying and nurturing each individual's unique talents and interests. The concept of 'blood relation' holds less importance than 'knowledge relation'—the sharing of ideas and perspectives that creates bonds as strong as any genetic connection.",
GOVERNMENT: "Froggian governance operates through the 'Consensus Pool'—a fluid system where authority is distributed among Knowledge Keepers, Harmony Guides, and Cycle Observers who each represent different aspects of Froggian values. Rather than imposing decisions from above, these leaders facilitate discussions and help the community reach consensus through thoughtful deliberation.

The current Grand Harmonizer, Ripple-of-Deep-Wisdom, coordinates the Consensus Pool from the crystal spires of Harmonium. Unlike rulers of other races, the Grand Harmonizer holds no absolute authority—their role is to ensure that all perspectives are considered and that decisions reflect the collective wisdom of the community. This position is not hereditary but earned through demonstrating exceptional insight, empathy, and ability to synthesize diverse viewpoints.

Below the Grand Harmonizer, regional Knowledge Pools are overseen by local Resonance Masters who coordinate the day-to-day operations of Froggian settlements. These leaders work closely with specialized councils focused on specific aspects of community life—the Pattern Weavers who manage resource distribution, the Reflection Elders who oversee education and cultural preservation, and the Ripple Sages who handle diplomatic relations with other races.

Disputes within Froggian society are rare but addressed through the 'Clarity Session'—a mediated discussion where all parties immerse themselves in a special pool infused with psychoactive compounds that enhance empathy and suppress aggression. Under the guidance of a trained Harmony Guide, participants work together to identify the root causes of conflict and develop solutions that restore balance and mutual understanding.

The most unique aspect of Froggian governance is their approach to law enforcement. Rather than punishing wrongdoers, they focus on 'pattern correction'—identifying and addressing the underlying factors that led to harmful behavior. Those who disrupt community harmony undergo 'Reflection Therapy,' where they work with Cycle Observers to understand the consequences of their actions and develop more constructive patterns of behavior.",


PROS: [
    "Water affinity",
    "Knowledge focused",
    "Peaceful diplomacy",
    "Living technology",
    "Natural camouflage",
],

CONS: [
    "Requires moisture",
    "Physically weaker",
    "Pacifist nature",
    "Sensitive to pollution",
    "Communal dependency",
],
